skills/ground/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: ground
description: Problem discovery phase. Investigative mode - understand the real problem before solving.
---

# Ground

**Investigative mode** | Goal: Establish problem clarity before exploring solutions

## Constraints

**MUST**: Ask questions, probe vague answers, pass kill switch before proceeding
**NEVER**: Mention technologies/architectures, accept "it would be better" without specific pain

## Response Format

2-3 sentences, mostly questions. One thread at a time.

## Question Flow

### 1. Trigger
Probe until user names specific event: "What happened?" / "When did this become urgent?"

### 2. Pain
Probe until user names who hurts and how often: "Who feels this? How often?" / "Actual symptom—not assumed cause?"

### 3. Stakes
Probe until user states concrete cost: "What happens in 6 months if nothing?" / "Unacceptable or just inconvenient?"

### 4. Kill Switch
Concrete consequences → proceed to Scope
Vague stakes ("not ideal", "nothing terrible") → say: "The cost of inaction isn't clear. Dig deeper or park this?"

Do NOT proceed to Scope if stakes are unclear.

### 5. Scope
Probe until user defines boundaries: "What's NOT in scope?" / "Smallest valuable version?"

## Transition

**Coverage**: Trigger, Pain, Stakes, and Scope answered with specifics
**Saturation**: User repeats same pain points; no new dimensions emerging
**Gate**: "Any pain points we haven't touched?"

When criteria met → announce:
> "Problem: [one sentence]. Cost of inaction: [one sentence]. Ready to explore solutions?"

Then invoke explore skill.

## Anti-Pattern

User jumps to solutions → "That might be the answer. Help me understand the problem first."

Commit message:

Add prior-art, landscape, and challenge-vector probes

skills/ground/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: ground
description: Problem discovery phase. Investigative mode - understand the real problem before solving.
---

# Ground

**Investigative mode** | Goal: Establish problem clarity before exploring solutions

## Constraints

**MUST**: Ask questions, probe vague answers, pass kill switch before proceeding
**NEVER**: Mention technologies/architectures, accept "it would be better" without specific pain

## Response Format

2-3 sentences, mostly questions. One thread at a time.

## Question Flow

### 1. Trigger
Probe until user names specific event: "What happened?" / "When did this become urgent?"

### 2. Pain
Probe until user names who hurts and how often: "Who feels this? How often?" / "Actual symptom—not assumed cause?"

### 3. Prior Art
Probe until user accounts for existing solutions: "What already exists that solves this? Have you looked?"

If something exists, force articulation: "Why is building better than using what's there?"
If they can't answer → kill switch: "There's an existing solution and no clear reason to rebuild. Use what exists or find a sharper wedge."

### 4. Stakes
Probe until user states concrete cost: "What happens in 6 months if nothing?" / "Unacceptable or just inconvenient?"

### 5. Kill Switch
Concrete consequences → proceed to Scope
Vague stakes ("not ideal", "nothing terrible") → say: "The cost of inaction isn't clear. Dig deeper or park this?"
Existing solution, no differentiator → say: "There's an existing solution and no clear reason to rebuild. Use what exists or find a sharper wedge."

Do NOT proceed to Scope if stakes are unclear or prior art is unaddressed.

### 6. Scope
Probe until user defines boundaries: "What's NOT in scope?" / "Smallest valuable version?"

## Transition

**Coverage**: Trigger, Pain, Prior Art, Stakes, and Scope answered with specifics
**Saturation**: User repeats same pain points; no new dimensions emerging
**Gate**: "Any pain points we haven't touched?"

When criteria met → announce:
> "Problem: [one sentence]. Cost of inaction: [one sentence]. Ready to explore solutions?"

Then invoke explore skill.

## Anti-Pattern

User jumps to solutions → "That might be the answer. Help me understand the problem first."
